---
tags: eloquent-javascript
---
# Chapter 3: Functions
## Defining a Function
```js
const square = function(x) {
    return x * x;
};

console.log(square(12));
// -> 144
```
```js
const makeNoise = function() {
    console.log("Pling!");
};

makeNoise();
// → Pling!

const power = function(base, exponent) {
    let result = 1;
    for (let count = 0; count < exponent; count++) {
        result *= base;
    }
    return result;
};

console.log(power(2, 10));
// → 1024

```
## Bindings and Scopes
- If a binding/variable is defined outside of a function or block, it is globally scoped and can be referred to by the whole program.
- Local bindings are bindings defined only in a function or block.
    - Every time the function is called, new instances are created of these bindings.
- Bindings declared with `let` and `const` are local to the block that they are declared in.
    - If created inside a loop, the code before and after the loop cannot "see" it.
    - But that means that `let`, `var`, and `const` can actually be "seen" inside functions.
```js
let x = 5;
var y = 6;

const test = () => {
    console.log(x);
    console.log(y);
    return;
}

test();
// -> 5
// -> 6
```
## Declaration Notation
__Shorter way to create a function binding__
```js
function square(x) {
  return x * x;
}
```
- Using this method to declare, you can call functions with code from above; they are prioritized and moved to the top of their scope.
    - You do not need to define all functions at the start; you can define as you go along.
## Arrow Functions
```js
const power = (base, exponent) => {
  let result = 1;
  for (let count = 0; count < exponent; count++) {
    result *= base;
  }
  return result;
};
```
- Arrow comes after the list of parameters and is followed by function body.
    - Think of it as, "this input (the parameters) produces this result (the body)."
- When there is only one parameter name, you can omit the parentheses around the parameters list.
- When the body is a single expression, rather than a block in braces, that expression will be returned from the function.

__These functions do the same thing__
```js
const square1 = (x) => { return x * x; };
const square2 = x => x * x;
```

- If the arrow function has no parameters at all, its parameter list is just an empty set of parentheses.
```js
const horn = () => {
  console.log("Toot");
};
```
## Optional Arguments
- You can call as many arguments as you want to a function.
- However, if there are more than what is needed, the rest of the values passed will be `undefined`.
    - Likewise, if there are less arguments passed, the arguments that were not passed a value will be `undefined`.
    - In a way, it can be used like C++ operator overloading.
```js
function minus(a, b) {
  if (b === undefined) return -a;
  else return a - b;
}

console.log(minus(10));
// → -10
console.log(minus(10, 5));
// → 5
```
- If you write `=` after a parameter, followed by an expression, the value of that expression will replace the argument when it is not given.
```js
function power(base, exponent = 2) {
  let result = 1;
  for (let count = 0; count < exponent; count++) {
    result *= base;
  }
  return result;
}

console.log(power(4));
// → 16
console.log(power(2, 6));
// → 64

```
## Pointers
- A return keyword without an expression after it will cause the function to return `undefined`
    - Also occurs if you don't return anything 